
=head1 NAME

usbprog - Programmer for the USBprog hardware


=head1 SYNOPSIS

usbprog [options] [commands]


=head1 DESCRIPTION

USBprog has two modes: An interactive mode and a batch mode. Both mode use
exactly the same commands. As every command takes a fixed number of arguments,
no separator is necessary between commands -- just specify as much commands as
you would like to execute.

The B<help> command gives a list of all commands, B<?> I<command> can be used
to get help for a specific command. Example:

  (usbprog) help
  (usbprog) ? upload


=head1 OPTIONS

Following options can be specified, both for the interactive and the batch
mode:

=over 7

=item B<-h> | B<--help>

Prints a short help.

=item B<-v> | B<--version>

Prints the version number to standard output.

=item B<-d> | B<--datadir> I<datadir>

Uses I<datadir> instead of F<~/.usbprog>.

=item B<-o> | B<--offline>

Don't try to connect to the internet. Use the cached firmware and index
file(s) only.

=item B<-d> | B<--debug>

Enable some debugging output. Almost useless.

=back

=head1 COMMANDS

This section describes all commands. As mentioned above, the syntax is the
same for interactive and batch usage.

=over 7

=item B<help>

This just prints an overview about every command, i.e. the command name
and an one-sentence description.

=item B<helpcmd> | B<?> I<command>

Print a detailed description for I<command>.

=item B<exit> | B<quit>

Quit the program. On Unix, you can also send an I<EOF> by pressing I<Ctrl-d>
on your terminal.

=item B<copying> | B<license>

Prints a short license (GPL) text and the version number of the program.

=item B<list> | B<firmwares>

Prints a list of available firmwares. A I<[*]> shows that the firmware is
available in the offline cache.

=item B<download> I<firmware>

Downloads the specified I<firmware>. Use the same string as you retrieved from
the B<firmwares> command described above. This command doesn't work in offline
mode.

=item B<info> I<firmware>

Shows some basic information about I<firmware> like what it does, the latest
version number, the author and the USB ID which the USBprog device has after
this firmware has been uploaded. See also the B<pins> command.

=item B<pins> I<firmware>

This shows the PIN assignment of I<firmware> and the meaning of the LED and
jumpers. See also the B<info> command for basic information about the
I<firmware>.

=item B<cache> I<clean> | I<delete>

I<clean> deletes all old firmware versions from the firmware cache, i.e. if
the latest version of a firmware is 5, then it deletes the versions 0 to 4 if
they are still on disk. The I<delete> command deletes the whole firmware
cache. Only the index and history file are in the cache directory after
executing this command.

=item B<devices>

Shows a list of connected USB devices related to USBprog. The currently used
update device an be set with B<device> and is also marked in the output.

=item B<device> I<number> | I<name>

Sets the update device for the B<upload> command. You have to use the integer
I<number> or the device I<name> you retrieved from the B<devices> command.

=item B<upload> I<firmware> | I<file>

Uploads a new firmware. The firmware identifier can be found with the
B<list> command. Alternatively, you can also specify a file name on the disk.
The extension doesn't matter.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 7

=item I<~/.usbprog/version.xml>

Index file, downloaded from I<http://www.ixbat.de/usbprog/versions.xml>.

=item I<~/.usbprog/history>

The saved readline(1) history.

=item I<~/.usbprog/*>

The rest in that directory are firmware files. The naming scheme is
I<name>.I<version>.

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

The USBprog program and documentation has been written by Bernhard Walle
E<lt>bernhard.walle@gmx.deE<gt>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

usbprog-gui(1), I<http://www.embedded-projects.net/index.php?page_id=135>



=cut

# vim: set spelllang=en_gb spell fdm=marker tw=78:
